Yape (#2383)
mercadopago/devsite-docs: guides/checkout-api-v2/yape.en.md

# Yape

Yape is a mobile application that simplifies the process of bank transfers. Users can make transactions easily and quickly directly from their cell phones, after linking their MultiRed debit card to the application.

> To make a transaction with Yape, the process begins with the creation of a token, which is necessary for the payment creation stage. This token can be generated in two ways: directly through an API or using the Mercado Pago JS SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make a transaction with Yape, first you must generate a token, which is necessary for the payment creation stage. This token can be generated in two ways: directly through an API or using the Mercado Pago JS SDK.
```

In this documentation, you will find all the necessary steps to perform the configuration and integration tests with Yape comprehensively.

> ## Integração via SDK javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Integration via SDK javascript
```

Reviewer: Gabai, no me queda claro cuál es la función de este H2 acá, siendo que no estamos indicando ningún paso, sólo describiendo un proceso. Tal vez sea yo que no entiendo del todo la integración, pero me parece que este párrafo debajo es más bien parte de la introducción.

Author: Oi, Pilli! Este é um parágrafo expositivo onde explicamos como se dá o processo. Tínhamos uma imagem neste H2, que retiramos porque estamos aguardando o time nos enviar uma mais nova e melhor (eles nos enviarão antes de subirmos esta doc à mar aberto), essa imagem ilustrará o processo todo com o SDK js e deverá vir no início da doc. Aqui, mais especificamente.

> With Checkout Transparente, it is possible to offer payments via Yape using the JS SDK method to generate a token. For this, it is necessary to send the phone number and OTP (one-time password found in the Yape application) fields. With the token, a payment can be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Checkout API, it is possible to offer payments via Yape using the JS SDK method to generate a token. For this, it is necessary to send the phone number and OTP (one-time password found in the Yape application) fields. With the token, a payment can be created.
```

To offer payments with Yape, follow these steps.

> ## Importing MercadoPago.js

Reviewer: Gabai, no me queda claro cuál es la función de este H2 acá, siendo que no estamos indicando ningún paso, sólo describiendo un proceso. Tal vez sea yo que no entiendo del todo la integración, pero me parece que este párrafo debajo es más bien parte de la introducción.

> The first step in the payment integration process with Yape is capturing OTP (One-time password) and phone number data to generate the payment token. This is done by including the MercadoPago.js library in your project, followed by the form to capture the necessary data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step in the payment integration process with Yape is capturing the OTP (One-time password) and phone number data to generate the payment token. This is done by including the MercadoPago.js library in your project, followed by the form to capture the necessary data.
```

  <div>
    <label for="payerPhone">Phone Number</label>
    <input id="form-checkout__payerPhone" name="payerPhone" type="text" />
  </div>
  <div>
    <label for="payerOTP">Phone Number</label>
    <input id="form-checkout__payerOTP" name="payerOTP" type="text" />
  </div>
  <div>
    <button onclick="handleYape()">Create YAPE</button>
  </div>
</form>
```

## Generate token

After completing the inclusion of the form and obtaining the necessary data, generate the Yape token using MercadoPago.js or via API.

### Generate token via MercadoPago.js

Use the `mp.yape.create` method to generate a Yape token, as shown in the code below:

```javascript
(async function handleYape () {
  const otp = docment.getElementById("checkout__payerOTP").value;
  const phoneNumber = docment.getElementById("checkout__payerPhone").value;
  const yapeOptions = {
    otp,
    phoneNumber
  };
  const yape = mp.yape(yapeOptions);
  const yapeToken = await yape.create();
  return yapeToken;
});
```

### Generate token via API

Another way to generate the token is through an API. To do this, use the following cURL, filling in the parameters as detailed in the table below.

> NOTE
>

> > The token is single-use per purchase and must be sent during the payment creation stage.

Reviewer: Esta nota no es válida para las dos vías de generación de token?

Author: Isso eu tô validando com o time e já já atualizo aqui

| `phoneNumber` | number  | Phone number of the payer obtained in the Capture cell phone and OTP data step.                                            | Required                                         | 123214234342                              |
| `otp`         | number  | Unique numeric 6-digit code found in the Yape app. This field is obtained in the Capture cell phone and OTP data step.       | Required                                         | 123344                                    |
| `requestId`   | string  | Field automatically generated by the JS SDK, not necessary to send. Must be sent only in integrations done via cURL.        | Required for integrations done via cURL          | aaaaaaaa-bbbb-1ccc-8ddd-eeeeeeeeeeee      |

```curl
curl --location 'https://api.mercadopago.com/platforms/pci/yape/v1/payment?public_key=<PUBLIC_KEY>' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data '{
   "phoneNumber": "123214234342",
   "otp": "123344",
   "requestId": "3127367123234234"
}
``` 

> Example of the response:

Reviewer: Esto habría que redactarlo, Gabai, dejarlo así me suena como si fuera un telegrama, jaja.

```json
{
    "live_mode": true,
    "luhn_validation": null,
    "require_esc": null,
    "cloned": false,
    "cardholder": {
        "identification": {
            "number": null,
            "type": null,
            "subtype": null
        },
        "name": "yape"
    },
    "security_code_id": 8069792005119486812,
    "security_code_length": 6,
    "card_number_length": 9,
    "expiration_month": 5,
    "expiration_year": 2024,
    "card_present_id": null,
    "card_id": null,
    "client_id": 7775327892346559,
    "present": null,
    "id": "45d013f72bf42717a1625f4c508fc20f",
    "card_number_id": "FFTSHQTOSJTXGFVFGJKCBAIVOUISTFZBDRTQWLYJ",
    "creation_date": null,
    "due_date": null,
    "last_modified_date": null,
    "product_id": null,
    "trust_level": "unknown",
    "public_key": "APP_USR-352587ca-674b-4ae4-a348-8583ab39b4ac",
    "site_id": "MPE",
    "status": "active",
    "transaction_id": null,
    "trunc_card_number": null,
    "used_date": null,
    "bin": "111111",
    "version": 0,
    "client_header": null,
    "first_six_digits": "111111",
    "last_four_digits": "6789"
}
```

## Create payment

> After adding the form to capture cell phone and OTP data and generating the token, use our Payments API or one of our SDKs to send the token and create the payment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding the form to capture the cell phone and OTP data and generating the token, use our Payments API or one of our SDKs to send the token and create the payment.
```

Reviewer: Gabai, creo que este párrafo es repetitivo con la información que das en el de abajo. Te dejo una sugerencia de redacción para el otro en caso de eliminar este.

> To create the payment, send the token provided by the Mercado Pago JS SDK and other necessary data to the endpoint [/v1/payments](/developers/en/reference/payments/_payments/post). These data include 'transaction_amount', 'installments', 'payment_method_id' (specifically 'yape'), and payer information. Alternatively, you can also make the request using one of our SDKs.

Reviewer: After adding the form to capture the cell phone and OTP data and generating the token, you must create the payment. To do so, send the token provided by the Mercado Pago JS SDK and all the necessary data to the endpoint [/v1/payments](/developers/en/reference/payments/_payments/post). These data include 'transaction_amount', 'installments', 'payment_method_id' (specifically 'yape'), and payer information. Alternatively, you can also make the request using one of our SDKs.

Details of each parameter mentioned above, as well as their respective possible values, are described in the following table.

> WARNING
>
> Important
>

> > For this step, when making the request through the API or SDKs, it is necessary to send your private key (_access_token_ in production).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For this step, when making the request through the API or SDKs, it is necessary to send your productive private key (_access_token_ ).
```

| Field             | Type    | Description                                                                                                                           | Required/Optional   | Examples/Possible values                 |
|-------------------|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|------------------------------------------|

> | `token`           | string  | Token provided by the Mercado Pago JS SDK. For more details, see the documentation [Generate Yape token](/developers/en/docs/checkout-api/integration-configuration/yape#bookmark_generate_token). | Required            | "f8ae90c6a83e71d698d5ea927f851034"       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `token`           | string  | Token provided by the Mercado Pago JS SDK. For more details, see the [Generate Yape token](/developers/en/docs/checkout-api/integration-configuration/yape#bookmark_generate_token) section. | Required            | "f8ae90c6a83e71d698d5ea927f851034"       |
```

| `transaction_amount`| number | Transaction amount. There is a maximum amount limit that can be S/500, S/900, or S/2000, configured directly within the Yape application. | Required            | 2000                                     |
| `description`     | string  | Product title.                                                                                                                        | Optional            | "Video game"                             |
| `installments`    | number  | Number of installments. As it is a debit card payment, the number of installments will be 1.                                          | Required            | 1                                        |

> | `payment_method_id`| string  | "yape" for all cases.                                                                                                                 | Required            | "yape"                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `payment_method_id`| string  | `yape` for all cases.                                                                                                                 | Required            | `yape`                                    |
```

import (
	"context"
	"fmt"

	"github.com/mercadopago/sdk-go/pkg/config"
	"github.com/mercadopago/sdk-go/pkg/payment"
)

func main() {
	accessToken := "ENV_ACCESS_TOKEN"

	cfg, err := config.New(accessToken)
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println(err)
		return
	}

	client := payment.NewClient(cfg)

	request := payment.Request{
		TransactionAmount: 5000,
            Description: "Titulo del producto",
		PaymentMethodID:   "yape",
		Payer: &payment.PayerRequest{
			Email: "test_user_123@testuser.com",
		},
		Token:        "ff8080814c11e237014c1ff593b57b4d",
		Installments: 1,
	}

	resource, err := client.Create(context.Background(), request)
	if err != nil {
		fmt.Println(err)
		return
	}

	fmt.Println(resource)
}
```
```curl
curl --location 'https://api.mercadopago.com/v1/payments' \
--header 'Authorization: Bearer <ACCESS_TOKEN>' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'x-idempotency-key: <IDEMPOTENCY_KEY>' \
--data-raw '{
   "token": "ff8080814c11e237014c1ff593b57b4d",
   "transaction_amount": 5000,
   "description": "Título del producto",
   "installments": 1,
   "payment_method_id": "yape",
   "payer": {
    "email": "test_user_1295925766@testuser.com"
   }
}'
```
]]]

> Example of the response. Please note that some information has been omitted to highlight the most relevant fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below, you can see an example of the response. Please note that some information has been omitted to highlight the most relevant fields.
```

```json
{
    "id": 74581527758,
    ...
    "payment_method_id": "yape",
    "payment_type_id": "debit_card",
    "payment_method": {
        "id": "yape",
        "type": "debit_card",
        "issuer_id": "12759",
        "data": {
            "routing_data": {
                "merchant_account_id": "462540702"
            }
        }
    },
    "status": "approved",
    "status_detail": "accredited",
    ...
}
```

> Due to being a debit card transaction, possible payment statuses are **approved** or **rejected**. Additionally, the same [refund and cancellation policies](/developers/en/docs/checkout-api/payment-management/cancellations-and-refunds) apply.

Reviewer: "the same" serían las mismas políticas aplicables a qué? No queda claro de qué hablamos, creo.

> NOTE
>
> If any error occurs while generating a payment, refer to the list of possible errors in the [API Reference](/developers/en/reference/payments/_payments/post).

> ## Test Integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Integration Test
```

Reviewer: Gabai, por qué incluimos una sección de prueba de integración acá? Pregunto porque dentro de CHO API está la sección a parte, que no está actualizada, pero creo que puede hacer algo de ruido.

Author: Pilli, por ser uma documentação muito específica para Peru, o time resolveu manter todas as informações relacionadas a este meio de pagamento em uma só página

> You can use a test OTP and phone numbers to simulate different payment responses in a transaction, without needing to use real phone numbers and OTPs. This allows you to replicate the statuses mapped in _payments_.

Reviewer: Con ese último payments nos referimos a la API? De ser así, linkearía

To test the integration, enter the OTP and one of the phone numbers listed in the table below into the Checkout form to simulate scenarios of success and failure in implementation.

> NOTE
>

> > To test the integration, we recommend using test credentials. For more information, refer to the [documentation](/developers/en/docs/checkout-api/additional-content/your-integrations/credentials).

Reviewer: Creo que esto más que una recomendación tendría que ser una obligación, porque CHO API no acepta usuarios test. Tal vez cambiar la redacción a "To test the integration, you must use the test credentials of your productive account"?

| Phone Number   | OTP     | Expected status in `payments`          |
|----------------|---------|---------------------------------------|
| 111111111      | 123456  | `approved`                            |
| 111111112      | 123456  | `cc_rejected_call_for_authorize`      |
| 111111113      | 123456  | `cc_amount_rate_limit_exceeded`       |
| 111111114      | 123456  | `cc_unsupported_unsupported`          |
| 111111115      | 123456  | `cc_rejected_card_type_not_allowed`   |
| 111111116      | 123456  | `cc_rejected_max_attempts`            |
| 111111117      | 123456  | `cc_rejected_bad_filled_security_code`|
| 111111118      | 123456  | `cc_rejected_form_error`              |

> The procedures to generate the Yape token and create the payment are the same: you need to provide the phone number and OTP from the table above. If you have any questions about generating the Yape token or creating the payment, refer to the documentation [Generate token](/developers/en/docs/checkout-api/integration-configuration/yape#bookmark_generate_token) and [Create payment](/developers/en/docs/checkout-api/integration-configuration/yape#bookmark_create_payment) respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The procedures to generate the Yape token and create the payment are the same: you need to provide the phone number and OTP from the table above. If you have any questions about generating the Yape token or creating the payment, refer to the [Generate token](/developers/en/docs/checkout-api/integration-configuration/yape#bookmark_generate_token) and [Create payment](/developers/en/docs/checkout-api/integration-configuration/yape#bookmark_create_payment) sections, respectively.
```
